Early Prediction for Chronic Kidney Disease Detection: A
Progressive Approach to Health Management

Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is a major medical problem and can be cured if treated in the early
stages. Usually, people are not aware that medical tests we take for different purposes could contain
valuable information concerning kidney diseases. Consequently, attributes of various medical tests
are investigated to distinguish which attributes may contain helpful information about the disease. The
information says that it helps us to measure the severity of the problem, the predicted survival of the
patient after the illness, the pattern of the disease and work for curing the disease.

In todays world as we know most of the people are facing so many disease and as this can be cured
if we treat people in early stages this project can use a pretrained model to predict the Chronic Kidney
Disease which can help in treatments of peoples who are suffer from this disease.

Project Flow:

? User interacts with the UI to enter the input.
? Entered input is analysed by the model which is integrated.
? Once model analyses the input the prediction is showcased on the UI
To accomplish this, we have to complete all the activities listed below,
? Define Problem / Problem Understanding
? Specify the business problem
? Business requirements
? Literature Survey
? Social or Business Impact.
? Data Collection & Preparation
? Collect the dataset
? Data Preparation
? Exploratory Data Analysis
? Descriptive statistical
? Visual Analysis
? Model Building
? Training the model in multiple algorithms
? Testing the model
? Performance Testing & Evaluate the results
? Testing model with multiple evaluation metrics
? Evaluate the results
? Model Deployment
? Save the best model
? Integrate with Web Framework
? Project Demonstration & Documentation
? Record explanation Video for project end to end solution
? Project Documentation-Step by step project development procedure


Project Structure:

Create the Project folder which contains files as shown below
? We are building a flask application which needs HTML pages stored in the templates folder
and a python script app.py for scripting.
? CKD.pkl is our saved model. Further we will use this model for flask integration.
? Training folder contains a model training file.
Milestone 1: Define Problem / Problem Understanding
Activity 1: Specify the business problem
Refer Project Description
Activity 2: Business requirements
The business requirements for a machine learning model to predict chronic kidney
disease include the ability to accurately predict the ckd based on given information,
Minimise the number of false positives (predicting diseased) and false negatives (not
diseased). Provide an explanation for the model's decision, to comply with regulations
and improve transparency.
Activity 3: Literature Survey (Student Will Write)
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a significant public health issue, affecting an
estimated 14% of the global population. The disease is characterized by a gradual
loss of kidney function over time, leading to a range of serious health complications,
including end-stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring dialysis or kidney transplant.
Early detection and management of CKD is crucial to prevent progression to ESRD
and improve patient outcomes.
There have been numerous studies in recent years aimed at developing accurate and
efficient methods for predicting CKD progression. These studies have employed a
variety of techniques, including machine learning, deep learning, and artificial neural